# Garbler

A Go program for advertising route health information via RIP.

## Usage

```
garbler --prefix="<ipv4_network/prefix>" --cmd="<healthcheck command>"
```

## Behaviour

* `garbler` will run the specified command + arguments every 30 seconds.
* Once the command has run successfully (i.e. 0 exit status) 3 times, `garbler`
  will start sending RIP updates with a metric of 1 for the prefix specified in
the command line. Updates will be sent every 30 seconds, until/unless three
successive invocations of the command fail.
* If the command fails 3 times in succession, `garbler` will start sending RIP
  updates with a metric of 16 (i.e. unreachable) for the prefix specified in
the command line. Updates will be sent every 30 seconds, until/unless three
successive invocations of the command succeed.

## Spec

`garbler` is a reimplementation of
[`fabler`](https://github.com/msuriar/fabler), a simple program I wrote to
learn C. Several people have requested additional features, most notably BGP
support; Go and its standard library seemed like they would be more
maintainable long term than C.

The original spec of `fabler` is recorded below for posterity.

```
< Remosi> I figure you should write a C daemon that takes  (v4) prefix and a
command to run. It runs the command every 30s, if the command returns exit
level 0 3 times in a row, then it starts sending ripv2 packets with the prefix,
if it returns non zero 3 times in a row, it sends ripv2 packets with the
distance set to infinity.

< Remosi> should be a simple C program
```

## Copyright and license

Copyright 2013 Murali Suriar

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this work except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License in the LICENSE file, or at:

  [https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
